rust/README.md, before:

# Silo Rust multi-threading performace test

## Description of the performance test

`unsafe` is not used.

## Build

You need either Cargo or Rustup. The Debian package names are ***cargo*** and ***rustup***.  
Build with the following command:

`$ cargo build --release`

The resulting executable is `target/release/silo`.

## Running the reference test

`silo` must be run from the top directory of the silo project. There is only one command-line parameter, specifying the implementation type:

| Implementation | Queue type | Non-blocking | Suffers from scheduler unfairness |
|---|---|---|---|
| `concurrent` | [concurrent_queue](https://crates.io/crates/concurrent_queue) | mostly | no |
| `textbook` | a simple blocking bounded queue using only the standard Rust library (VecDeque, Mutex and Condvar) | no | no |
| `textbook_pl` | like `textbook` but with Mutex and Condvar from [parking_lot](https://crates.io/crates/parking_lot) | no | no |
| `syncless` | queueless, with no synchronization overhead | yes | yes |
| `serial` | single-threaded | N/A | N/A |

## Test results

| Implementation / CPU (hardware parallelism) | Intel Core i5-4210M (4) | Intel Core i5-10210U (8) | AMD Ryzen 7735HS (16) |
|---|---|---|---|
| `concurrent` |  |  |  |
| `textbook` |  |  |  |
| `textbook_pl` |  |  |  |
| `syncless` |  |  |  |
| `serial` |  |  |  |

General results:
- Rust is noticeably slower than C++.
- Do not use Rust if you expect to have high contention for a specific mutex.

Some remarks: 
- The thread scheduler is very fair. Thus the syncless implementation is close to perfect. The most privileged thread finishes its job at more than 99% ot the total job done. As a result, the CPUs are not fully utilized for just a small amount of time and the average speed is not significantly affected.
- Rust has its own implementation of synchronization primitives (specifically, mutex and condition) that perform very badly under high contention. The underlying cause is that notifying a condition leads to a ["hurry up and wait"](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/thread/condition_variable/notify_one) situation. Up until version 1.61 (inclusive) Rust used the pthreads library - it avoids "hurry up and wait" and performs very well under high contention but this implementation seems to be gone for good.
- The parking_lot crate at first glance performs better under high contention but it has the tendency to occasionally throw its hands up. After such an event, the processing speed of `textbook_pl` goes below the one of `serial`. The underlying cause is unknown.

## TODO
- Make both a blocking and an asynchronous implementation based on [std::sync::mpmc](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/sync/mpmc/index.html), as soon as it gets released.

Commit message:

Add std::sync::mpsc implementations and ditch 1.61 compatibility.

rust/README.md, after:

# Silo Rust multi-threading performace test

## Description of the performance test

`unsafe` is not used.

## Build

You need either Cargo or Rustup. The Debian package names are ***cargo*** and ***rustup***.  
Build with the following command:

`$ cargo build --release`

The resulting executable is `target/release/silo`.

## Running the reference test

`silo` must be run from the top directory of the silo project. There is only one command-line parameter, specifying the implementation type:

| Implementation | Queue type | Non-blocking | Suffers from scheduler unfairness |
|---|---|---|---|
| `concurrent` | [concurrent_queue](https://crates.io/crates/concurrent_queue) | mostly | no |
| `async_mpmc` | [std::sync::mpsc::channel](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/sync/mpsc/fn.channel.html) | mostly | no |
| `textbook` | a simple blocking bounded queue using only the standard Rust library (VecDeque, Mutex and Condvar) | no | no |
| `textbook_pl` | like `textbook` but with Mutex and Condvar from [parking_lot](https://crates.io/crates/parking_lot) | no | no |
| `sync_mpmc` | [std::sync::mpsc::sync_channel](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/sync/mpsc/fn.sync_channel.html) | no | no |
| `syncless` | queueless, with no synchronization overhead | yes | yes |
| `serial` | single-threaded | N/A | N/A |

## Test results

| Implementation / CPU (hardware parallelism) | Intel Core i5-4210M (4) | Intel Core i5-10210U (8) | AMD Ryzen 7735HS (16) |
|---|---|---|---|
| `concurrent` |  |  |  |
| `async_mpmc` |  |  |  |
| `textbook` |  |  |  |
| `textbook_pl` |  |  |  |
| `sync_mpmc` |  |  |  |
| `syncless` |  |  |  |
| `serial` |  |  |  |

General results:
- Rust is noticeably slower than C++.
- Do not use Rust if you expect high contention.

Some remarks: 
- The thread scheduler is very fair. Thus the syncless implementation is close to perfect. The most privileged thread finishes its job at more than 99% ot the total job done. As a result, the CPUs are not fully utilized for just a small amount of time and the average speed is not significantly affected.
- Rust has its own implementation of synchronization primitives (specifically, mutex and condition) that perform very badly under high contention. The underlying cause is that notifying a condition leads to a ["hurry up and wait"](https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/thread/condition_variable/notify_one) situation. Up until version 1.61 (inclusive) Rust used the pthreads library - the latter avoids "hurry up and wait" and performs very well under high contention. But the pthreads-backed implementation seems to be gone for good. One advantage of the stadard synchronization primitives is that they have a consistent (even if bad) performance.
- The parking_lot crate behaves much worse under high contention. The test execution starts well but rather sooner than later the mutex' throughput suddenly drops to such a low level that the processing speed of `textbook_pl` goes below the one of `serial`. Eventually, it may recover, only to degrade again. The likelyhood of falling in this performance hole seems to go up with the number of CPUs (or the number of threads). The underlying cause is unknown.
